You are in a pattern in a relationship
that you're repeating over and over
again that causes you a tremendous
amount of pain. And most likely you know
what caused it. You know that you had
this kind of relationship when you were
a kid with your mom or your dad or an
uncle or a teacher or something like
that and you keep on coming back to the
pattern over and over again. And knowing
where it came from is one thing, but
knowing how to end it is a completely
different thing. And so that's what
we're going to explore in this video is
how to end that toxic relationship
pattern that you have and how to do it
with actually very very little effort.
And let me tell you a story that when it
like really hit me that this is such a
like a ubiquitous phenomenon, meaning
that you're not alone in this at all. I
was in this rock and roll band. It was
like in the I was in my 20s. It was a
long time ago. And the drummer said, you
know, I can walk into any room. I can
close my eyes, throw a dart behind my
back, and I will hit the woman with
daddy issues, and that's the person I'm
going to be attracted to. That's like,
right, we all know this thing about, all
right, I'm attracted to the person who
is not going to be good for me, and I
keep on being attracted to that kind of
a person. And so, typically, what you're
going to see is that you're going to be
attracted to the thing that you learned
as a kid was love. So, if you learned
criticism
was love as a kid, that love came with
criticism, then you're going to be
attracted to somebody who criticizes
you. Or if you as a kid were abused,
then what's going to happen is you're
going to have that love and abuse wired
together through a parent and then
you're going to be attracted to people
who abuse you. And the data here is
tremendous. It's like if somebody was
sexually assaulted as a kid, the chances
of them being sexually assaulted as an
adult go way through the roof. So, this
is this is like that's a very pronounced
level of it, but we're all doing that on
some level. So, we've got this thing
wired together and and it feels like we
can't escape it, but it's actually quite
easy to escape.
Let me tell you the story about how I
broke through it. And I was awkward
about it. like it didn't go smoothly for
me, but since then I've been able to
walk enough people through it that I can
tell you how how to make it a lot
easier. So, but my story is as follows.
One day I was reading Fritz Pearls, who
was this uh like 1970s therapist. He was
like this chain smoking German guy. And
uh and he talked about how in our heads
there's an upper dog and an underdog.
And the upper dog is you should do this,
you should do this, why aren't you doing
this? And the underdog is the yeah, I
should, but I'm not going to go [__]
yourself, right? Like this is the
conversation that's happening in our
head. And I realized, oh, okay, so I am
not going to do that anymore. I thought
to myself, and the way that I I went
through that wasn't to try to stop the
voice from happening. It's just when I
heard the voice, you should do this.
When I heard the upper dog, what he
called the upper dog, I would say, oh,
no, thank you. You could treat me with
uh more respect than that, please. And
so the should started to go down and
down that that upper dog, that abusive
voice started to decrease. And as it
started to decrease, I noticed I started
doing things like drawing boundaries.
And I think it was maybe just like a
year later, I called up my father and I
said, "Hey, every time I come home,
you're criticizing me and
I don't want to come home because who
the heck wants to go to a place where
they're criticized all the time. So I'm
happy to come home if you can." uh not
criticize me. So just give me a call and
say, "Oh, hey, I'm ready to hang out
with you without criticizing you and
I'll be home." And up until that point,
my dad had constantly guilt tripped me
to come home. And uh so it got awkward.
Uh it took like a year, maybe a year and
a half for him to call me and say,
"Okay, I'm ready." And then I came home
and lo and behold, he didn't criticize
me. Or I think maybe he criticized me
once and we both caught it and he went,
"Oh, okay. Stop."
And that was the beginning of me seeing
what actually needed to happen for me to
stop abusive relationships, which was I
had to stop having an abusive
relationship with myself. That's the
most critical piece. I had to see that
the thing that I was creating in my life
was also being created in me. So that
was the first piece. The second piece
that was really important was to realize
that there was an emotion that I was
having that I didn't want to have and
that I was inviting in the exact way
that I was trying not to have the
emotion. Right? So, one of the things as
an example that I was doing was I kept
on uh having this feeling of abandonment
and that was an abandonment of me as a
kid. Love came with abandonment. Love
meant that you didn't take care of
yourself. love meant that you took care
of somebody else. And so, every time I
was in a relationship and I was faced
with the potential of abandonment, like,
oh, maybe I'm going to have to feel it,
I did one of two things. The first thing
that I did was go, "Fuck you. I don't
need you anyhow." Which of course makes
a person abandon you. So, then I'm in
abandonment. Or I was like, "Oh, what
can I do to help? Like, how do I keep
you here?" Which of course makes me
needy. Nobody wants that. And more
likelihood of abandonment. And I
realized, oh, the only way I'm going to
get out of this trap is if I lean into
the feeling of abandonment.
So that was the second thing. The second
thing was my entire pattern was based on
trying to avoid something that in the
avoidance I was bringing in. So I
started to learn how to fall in love
with abandonment. Oh, that feeling of
abandonment. Like what is that signaling
for me? And whatever the emotion is that
you're avoiding, for me it was
abandonment. And for me it was, "Oh, I'm
abandoning myself."
When I go, "Fuck you. I don't need you
anyhow." I have to cut off a part of
myself. Or if I'm like, "Oh, come and
like please let me look. Is there a way
that I can?" And I get needy. I have to
abandon a part of myself. And so I
started to really lean into that feeling
because it told me exactly what I needed
to do, which was to be in myself. I
started getting excited for feeling
abandonment.
And then I stopped inviting the
abandonment by trying to avoid it. So
that was the second thing that was
really important for me to stop these
abusive cycles.
So the next thing your brain is going to
do is it's going to say, "Okay, these
are the two things. Lean into the
emotions and stop the self-abusive
talk." And then you're going to say, "I
have to stop the self-abusive talk and
lean into my emotions." But that is just
more self-abusive talk. It doesn't work.
That's just more shoods that you're
putting on yourself. that's just more of
that voice. And so then you're in that
abusive situation again. So it's far
better to just be aware that it is
happening. That's all that's required
really if you just become aware of the
abusive voice when it's occurring or
that you're running away from an emotion
and you become aware of how much that
hurts. So you stick with it. And the
thing is you're already aware of it,
right? You're already aware of that
voice in your head or you would have
stopped the video by now. and you're
already aware of the emotional
avoidance. You can you know what
avoidance feels like. So you're you're
aware of it. The only difference is that
when you are aware of it, you sit with
it. You just sit with it. You just put
attention on it without running away
from it. That's the only thing that you
have to do. The pain that brought you to
the video is the pain that you're paying
attention to. So you don't just pay
attention to the phenomenon. Pay
attention to the pain behind the
phenomenon and really allow yourself to
feel it because it's as simple as if I
touch a hot stove and I'm aware of it,
I'm going to stop touching the hot
stove. So just become deeply aware of
the pain that it creates. Feel it and
go, "Oh, that's not what I want to
feel." And if you do that on a
consistent basis, the behavior just
changes.
the behavior is stuck in place when you
tell yourself you should do that because
it's just more abuse and so you're just
continuing the cycle. The way to break
the cycle is to go ouch that hurts. Ouch
that hurts. Ouch that hurts.
So, I'm going to give you a simple
experiment. And if you've watched my
videos, this is an experiment that I've
given for a couple things, but it's just
such a good one. I'm going to give it to
you again. And it's the following. Your
job is to sit 20 minutes a day, listen
to the abusive voice in your h head, and
every time it says something, your job
is just to go, "Ouch, that hurts. Please
don't treat me like that.
Ouch, that hurts. Please don't treat me
like that." You can do it right now. As
a matter of fact, just close your eyes
and you're going to hear that voice in
your head talk. It's going to take
probably no more than 30 seconds.
And as soon as you hear it, it's going
to say something that you would never
say to another person. It's going to say
something that's just mean and you're
going to go, "Ouch, that hurts. Please
don't talk to me like that." And it's as
simple as that. So, you do that and
immediately you'll it'll start becoming
quieter. And that's the entire job. It
takes no effort at all. The more effort
you do, the harder it gets. The easier
it gets is just by bringing the
awareness to the pain. That's it. That's
all that's required.
[Music]